We're going to be using Apache's ActiveMQ for our demonstrations.
So this module is all about getting our demonstration
environment configured and working.
Apache ActiveMQ is a fairly typical and widely-used JMS implementation.
It has lots of good features and well matured at this stage.
At the time of recording this course, it does only support though JMS 1.
1 specification,
therefore the vast majority of the examples we'll be
looking at will be using the JMS 1.
1 spec.
There is now also a JMS 2 specification,
which does simplify the client API a little.
We will look at some examples of those changes in a later module.
So to get started,
let's go to the ActiveMQ website and click on the Download link.
I'm using Linux as my operating system and specifically Linux Mint,
which is based on Ubuntu.
If you're using this or any other Unix-style environment including Mac,
then you can download this version; otherwise,
you'll need to download the Windows version.
Once you've downloaded the archive,
you will then need to extract it a suitable location.
In my case, I'm extracting it to my Applications folder.
Now really I'm only going to be using the ActiveMQ for development purposes.
If you're installing it for a production environment,
then there will be lots of other configuration that you
will need to follow and put in place.
Every JMS implementation is different in this regard.
I can't directly provide any advice on that,
other than to refer to the documentation for your selected JMS provider.
As this is a course on Practical Enterprise JMS,
not Practical ActiveMQ, I'll use the basic out-of-the-box configuration.
Now that I've extracted the archive,
I'm going to change directory into this created folder,
and then look for the BIN folder and change into that.
There are a few files in this folder,
but I'm going to use the ActiveMQ executable script with a parameter of start.
On Windows, you will find a similar ActiveMQ.
bat file that you can execute in a similar fashion.
Now that the server is running,
I can go back a directory and look into the data directory.
This is where the log files are placed,
so you can have a look there to see if there are any
issues or want any further information.
Actually,
from this file it shows me the admin consoles
available on localhost on port 8161.
So if I open a web browser, and go to that URL,
then I can see the application is running.
I specifically want to look in the Manage ActiveMQ Broker section.
So I'll click on that link, and I'm prompted for a username and password.
The default username is admin, and the password is also admin.
Again,
this is the kind of thing you want to change if you're
creating a production and configuration.
Now that I'm in the Broker admin console,
it gives me some basic information about the host machine,
service uptime, and resources used.
Using the sections along the top, Ic an look at various bits of information,
including the various queues, topics, subscriptions,
etc.
Most of them are going to be empty, but just to show that,
I'll click on the queue section.
As expected, we currently have no queues registered,
so there's nothing to display.
Let's test the broker.
I can click on the Send link along the top.
This brings up a page that allows me to send a text message onto a queue
that theoretically could be consumed by a JMS client.
Let's send a message.
So, it's going to be going to the foo.
bar queue, and I'll simply enter some text into the text box for the message.
This is a test.
Then we click on Send.
Now if I go back to the queue section,
then I can see we now have a queue called foo.
bar, and it has one message pending consumption.
In the Views section, there are a number of useful links that we can use.
For now,
we're simply going to click on the Atom fee to give us an XML
representation of the message that was sent.
And here we can see the message content we sent.
I can also perform some operations,
which include sending another message to the queue,
which we have already demonstrated,
but we can also purge or remove all the messages from the
queue by clicking on the Purge link.
As you can now see, the pending message count has gone to 0,
as the message has been de-queued.
I can also delete the queue from here by clicking on the Delete link.
There's a lot more you can do and see in here,
so I'd advise you to take the time and take a look around the various views.
If you mess things up,
then you can easily stop the message broker and extract the
downloaded package again to ensure everything is clean.
In fact, let's jump back quickly to the commandline,
and show you how you can stop the broker.
Well, it's pretty obvious really.
Rather than calling ActiveMQ with a parameter of start,
you call it with a parameter of stop.
Although this course assumes some knowledge of JMS already,
the next module is comprised of various plays that you can refer back to for some basic tasks in JMS.